:fire: [New Term]: C++ Math-Functions: `.tanh()` (#981) (#1251)
Codecademy/docs: content/cpp/concepts/math-functions/terms/tanh/tanh.md

---
Title: 'tanh()'

> Description: 'Returns the hyperbolic tangent of a double-type value.'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Description: 'Returns the hyperbolic tangent of an angle given in radians.'
```

Subjects:
  - 'Computer Science'
Tags:
  - 'Functions'
  - 'Arithmetic'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-c-plus-plus'
  - 'paths/computer-science'
---

> The **`Math.tanh()`** function returns the hyperbolic tangent of an `double`-type argument given in radians.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **`Math.tanh()`** function returns the hyperbolic tangent of an angle given in radians.
```

## Syntax

```pseudo
std::tanh(angle)
```

The `angle` is measured in radians and the return type is a `double`, `float`, or `long double`.

The mathematical formula used in `tanh()` looks like this:

```tex
tanh(x) = (e<sup>x</sup> - e<sup>-x</sup>) / (e<sup>x</sup> + e<sup>-x</sup>)

> ```

Reviewer: @tanishq-singh-2301 Unfortunately, we aren't able to combine \```tex code with GH-flavored HTML (`<sup></sup>`). We have two options:

- Remove the \```tex backticks and keep `<sup></sup>`. (recommended)
- Remove `<sup></sup>` and keep \``` tex code block.
  - Again, this is not likely to render correctly at this time.

---
Title: 'tanh()'
Description: 'Returns the hyperbolic tangent of a double-type value.'
Subjects:
  - 'Computer Science'
Tags:
  - 'Functions'
  - 'Arithmetic'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-c-plus-plus'
  - 'paths/computer-science'
---

> The **`Math.tanh()`** function returns the hyperbolic tangent of an `double`-type arguement given in radians.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **`Math.tanh()`** function returns the hyperbolic tangent of an `double`-type argument given in radians.
```

## Syntax

```pseudo
std::tanh(angle)
```

The `angle` is measured in radians and the return type is a `double`, `float`, or `long double`.

The mathematical formula used in `tanh()` looks like this:

> 
> ```tex
> tanh(x) = (e^x - e^-x) / (e^x + e^-x)
> ```
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

tanh(x) = (e<sup>x</sup> - e<sup>-x</sup>) / (e<sup>x</sup> + e<sup>-x</sup>)

```

While the \```tex blocks [are technically supported](https://curriculum-documentation.codecademy.com/content-guidelines/markdown-style-guide/#latex) in our content, they haven't been rendering as expected in our Docs entries (e.g., [here](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/cpp/math-functions/cosh)).

## Example

The following example demonstrates the application of `.tanh()` function:

```cpp
#include <iostream>
#include <cmath>

> int main()
> {

Reviewer: ```suggestion
int main() {
```

  // Values in degree
  double value1 = -30.0;
  double value2 = 120.0;
  double value3 = 180.0;

  // Convert degree to radian
  value1 = value1 * 3.1415 / 180;
  value2 = value2 * 3.1415 / 180;
  value3 = value3 * 3.1415 / 180;

  double result1 = std::tanh(value1);
  double result2 = std::tanh(value2);
  double result3 = std::tanh(value3);

  std::cout << "The value of tanh(" << value1 << ") is: " << result1 << "\n";
  std::cout << "The value of tanh(" << value2 << ") is: " << result2 << "\n";
  std::cout << "The value of tanh(" << value3 << ") is: " << result3 << "\n";
}
```

This produces the following output:

```shell
The value of tanh(-0.523583) is: -0.480461
The value of tanh(2.09433) is: 0.97012
The value of tanh(3.1415) is: 0.996271
```

## Codebyte Example

This example uses `tanh()` to return the hyperbolic tangent of `1.0` radians:

```codebyte/cpp
#include <iostream>
#include <cmath>

> int main()
> {
>   double value = 1.0;
>   double result = std::tanh(value);
> 
>   std::cout << "The value of tanh(" << value << ") is: " << result << "\n";
> }

Reviewer: ```suggestion
int main() {
  double value = 1.0;
  double result = std::tanh(value);

  std::cout << "The value of tanh(" << value << ") is: " << result << "\n";
}
```
